# Cannibal Contagion
*A Horrific Survival Comedy Role-Playing Game*

**design:** Nathanael Phillip Cole  
**internal art:** Leonardo Freites, Veronica Gandini  
**cover art:** Kathren Moss

Third Document Revision - Summer 2016

*Cannibal Contagion* is Copyright © 2008-2010 Nathanael Phillip Cole  
http://cannibalcontagion.com  
http://alliteratedgames.com

Cannibal Contagion is a CelStyle game: http://celstyle.com

### Acknowledgements

Playtesters: Julia Amlund, Josh Avila, James Ballard, Claire Bickell,
Jonathan Borzilleri, Kevin Bradley, Bill Bryan, Michael Cole, Joshua
Desatoff, Chris Faux, Nievita Hartness, Matt Jarvie, Bethany Joy, Mark
Jondahl, Lev Lafayette, Jonathan Cahn Lemer, Julian Michels, Nathan
Monger, Fabrice Odefrey, Alex Perez, Jake Richmond, Greg Samford,
Trinity Sell, Anna Sheffey, Nick Smith, Jonathan Stark, Chris Street,
Tyler Tinsley, Sam Turgeon, Ricardo Valentin, Rebecca Verhoeven, Erin
Walli, Tyler Brandon Walls, Sue Young

Special Thanks: The Four Fine Fellows From Eugene, Gaston, Gilbert,
GoPlayPDX , Grady, Jake, JP, Lord Snow, Ogre, Robman, Screg, Willem, the
entire 2009 class of Youthpastor Cody’s Righteous-Awesome XTREEM Jesus
Camp, and special thanks to you Mrs. Calabash – wherever you are.

Extra Special Thanks to Bethany for the many nights of Resident Evil
bliss, and for trips to the ice cream shop.

# Part 1: Introduction

> “And I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder:  
> One of the four beasts saying ‘Come and see.’  
> And I saw.  
>  
> Johnny Cash, “When the Man Comes Around”  
> - or, you know, *The Bible* (Revelation 6:1)

## Welcome to the Chaos

Have you ever watched those movies? You know, *those* movies: people
desperately trying to survive against an overwhelming sinister force,
all the while trying to keep themselves from becoming part of that very
same evil? Zombies, slashers, mind-controlling aliens, those kinds of
movies. What about those really psychological survival-horror video
games that have been so popular in the last few years? Evil spirits
taking over a distant town, crazed maddened ghosts sucking the life
forces out of everything they touch, murderous monsters of twisted and
infectious designs – games like that. And the comics, oh man, the
comics! I can’t go to the comic store today without seeing at least a
half-dozen or more fantastic “Us Against The Zombies” serials, and it
seems like there’s a brand new one on the shelf every month or so.

This game is about playing out the exact types of conflicts present in
those movies, video games, comics and more. Characters will be created
and thrown into a world which is soon to be flipped turned upside-down,
if not already. Zombies, cannibals, infecting aliens, mind-controlling
vampires, body-stealers, soul-eating parasites and more, there will be
constant threats of vile monsters which seek to do horrible things to
the characters, and the players get to role-play that chaotic action and
survival. Perhaps they’ll be constantly running from the ever-impending
evil. Perhaps they’ll be knee-deep in the blood and bodies of the
creatures they ruthlessly slaughter. Perhaps they’ll murder each other
over who gets the last candy bar. Perhaps they’ll buckle under the
stress of survival and succumb to their inner madness. Perhaps they’ll
even transform into the very monsters they fight, and turn hungrily upon
those who were so very recently their friends and allies.

In ***Cannibal Contagion***, there can be plenty of high-adrenaline,
off-the-hook combat. You (read: the Players) can take control of the
game and seriously throw down. Blood can splatter the walls as you carve
through the monster hordes in what I like to call a “Survival Comedy”
style of game. But there can also be plenty of drama as the characters
come face-to-face with the dark things that mere humans were not meant
to face. As you see your friends and everything else about the world you
knew destroyed and corrupted, you are forced to make some serious
choices about your own morals and mortality. There is more than one way
to succumb to the evil; Infection is one such way, definitely. But how
different from that supernatural contagion is the sheer primal madness
within all people, the instinct that rears its head when the human is
forced to survive?

Thanks so very much for picking up a copy of ***Cannibal Contagion***.
May your future days be full of desperation, and may your
zombie-huntings be bountiful and maddening.

### What Makes This Game Different?

If you’ve ever looked through the shelves of your favorite local gaming
store, I’m pretty sure you’ve noticed at least a couple of other games
that already tackle the “Us Against the Undead” shtick. You may find
yourself wondering what makes this game different from those other
games. Perhaps thoughts such as “Man, *another* Zombie game? C’mon, bro,
try something new!” have crossed your mind while looking through the
book up until this point. But have no fear, this game brings something
new to the table, and I’m here to tell you what that is: ***Cannibal
Contagion*** is actually a role-playing game *about* Zombie survival,
and not just a default role-playing game system with some Zombie
monsters tacked on top. Those other games are lots of fun and several of
them grace my shelves at home, but I never quite felt that they
successfully brought the Zombie and the RPG together as one – as such,
this game was written to fix that.

In ***Cannibal Contagion***, the mechanics are built entirely around the
concept of survival against the dangers of an infectious enemy. Zombies
are of course one of the most popular versions of that danger, but
aliens, parasites, spirits, vampires, wendigo, and fundamentalist
religious cults could all be effectively handled with the exact same
approach: mechanics which could very quickly turn You into one of
*Them*. How are Body Snatchers, Zombies, and Possessing Spirits really
all that different? In this game, the abstract Infection rules are
incorporated tightly into the core system, making the true threat of the
Undead – that you might become one of them! – part of almost every
conflict in which the characters participate.

### Reading This Text

This book contains all the rules you need to play this game. Throughout
the text you will see various terms written in **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Bold Smallcaps</span>**. This format is
used to denote special mechanical terms that are important for
understanding this game. All of these terms will also be listed and
defined in the Glossary appendix at the back of this book.

Additionally, you’ll see words written in **bold** and *italics* quite
frequently, and sometimes even both at once. These exist not as special
terms or anything, but instead because I’m a pretty intense guy, and I
get excited when I write and want to emphasize things.

Something I find more amusing than I really should is reading these
rules to myself as if they were spoken by the Movie Trailer Guy. That
guy is awesome, and I want his job very badly.

## Game Play Synopsis

***Cannibal Contagion (CC)*** is intended to be a fast-paced
role-playing game of comedic gun-fu zombie-slaughtering survival and
action. The game is overseen by one player, called the **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Cannibal in Charge</span>** (CiC). The
CiC sets the game premise, and the players make their first characters –
we call these main characters the **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Survivors</span>**. Each player chooses
their Survivor’s numbers, abilities, and personal details, and the CiC
then sets the stage and frames the first Scene.

The game flows mainly in **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Scenes</span>**. A scene is set, and
the play begins. Players role-play in the scene, narrating their own
involvement until there is a conflict of some kind between the players
and/or their characters, or between one or more players and the CiC.
This most likely comes from one player disagreeing with aspects and
details of another player’s chosen narration. When this happens, it’s
time to break into a **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Showdown</span>**.

In a Showdown, players draw cards from the deck and then play those
cards against one another to determine success, and these Showdowns can
frequently escalate into higher levels of intensity. Whoever wins the
Showdown gets to narrate the outcome, and if the Showdown is
combat-based, there may be additional effects caused by whatever weapons
and equipment they are using.

Showdowns are where the shit hits the fan, and where the majority of the
crazy zombie-fighting action takes place. In most Showdowns, the
Survivors will face off against **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Threats</span>**, and attempt to
overcome them with clever application of narration and mechanics. Of
course, Showdowns don’t always have to involve zombies, especially
should the Survivors decide to start whacking each other over personal
slights and disagreements in plans. Nor do they even have to involve
combat, and can be used to play out highly plot-sensitive actions and
events that affect the game setting. But, just between you and me, there
will quite likely be a lot of murdering in these. It’s one of the game’s
big features, so just go at it and have fun.

The game flows in these scenes and Showdowns, and the characters push
forward towards whatever goals and objectives they have established. For
many games, the objective will most likely just be survival - getting
the hell out of, well, Hell or wherever they are, should be a primary
concern. But maybe there’s a bomb to diffuse, a crazy wizard to stop, an
evil machine to destroy, a group of innocents to rescue, a sinister
portal to seal, or something far more distressing. Perhaps the
characters have goals that conflict, and their pursuit of these goals
leads them to fight one another.

Between the scenes, the players can use special **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Survival Tokens</span>** to restore any
damage their characters may have taken, repair their wounded psyches,
and even acquire new equipment during the between-scene “downtimes.”
Survival Tokens can also be used mid-scene to resist damage and
insanity, and keep weapons loaded and primed for action.

The characters will come up against horrific things in this game, and
sometimes the worst threats to their survival will be their own fragile
minds. Monsters and demons are scary things, things humans weren’t meant
to encounter or understand. In the face of such stress, the characters
can risk their own sanity to push themselves further to the limit, doing
greater things that they would not normally be able to accomplish in
normal, “less-interesting” times. This is handled on-the-fly by
meta-game negotiations between the player and their designated **<span
style="font-variant:small-caps;">Mad Half</span>** (another player at
the table who controls that character’s insanity). As such, the
characters are at an increasing risk of flipping out and doing psychotic
wacko things.

All the while, as they try to stay cool and keep surviving, and their
players narrate the story forward, the threat of Infection grows ever
more serious. Many of the Threats the characters will face can infect
them with the Contagion, and with just a little bit of time and a few
wrong moves, any character could turn into a cannibal zombie-monster and
turn against the others. Even more distressing is the knowledge that
death will likely only hasten this inevitable threat.

Should a character ever turn to the Zombie Side, the player can choose
to continue as that murderous evil or instead draw up a brand new
character and keep fighting the good fight. The game could quite
possibly change its focus drastically, with all the players in the roles
of a pack of intelligent cannibal-monsters, hunting down other survivors
to fill their insatiable hungers!

## Basic Session Flow

A typical game of ***CC*** flows a little something like this:

1. Game Setup: CiC lays out the scenario basics, prepares the materials
2. Character Creation: All the players create their characters and choose
their Mad Half
3. Cold Opens: The CiC guides each character individually through their
own custom introduction scene.
4. Scenes: CiC sets the scene, the players play through the scene until
it’s time to move to a new scene.
5. Showdowns: When players conflict with Threats and each other, they use
their cards to play through Showdowns and Quickies. Players can
Negotiate with their Mad Half for on-the-fly empowerments during these
card plays.
6. Scenes flow back-to-back until the game comes to a suitable end.

## The Pitch: Getting Your Players Interested

“Hey guys! Have you seen *Dawn of the Dead*? What about *Versus*, or
*Wild Zero*? *Planet Terror*? Hell yeah, this game is just like that.
Let’s do it!” It really is just that easy. Tell your players you have a
zombie-survival game that only takes a couple of hours to play. Tell
them it works even better with beer. They’ll see your logic, and soon
you will all be playing a fabulous game of ***Cannibal Contagion***.
Make sure the players understand the implied lethality of the game, so
they don’t get all butt-hurt if (and more likely *when*) their
characters die. Make sure they also understand that this game favors
players who grab the story and push forward on their own. Players: Don’t
turtle up! Seize the moment!

## Setting It All Up

To start a game of ***CC***, someone has to first take on the mantle of
the Cannibal in Charge (CiC) and then gather together some friends to
play. As the CiC, you should take some time beforehand to set up a
scenario. The game’s scenario sets the basics of what is happening in
the game, and the handful of mechanical variables that should be
considered during playtime. A few example scenarios have been included
in this book, each complete with sample characters and suggested game
variables. Grab one of these and go if you want to jump right in, or
create your own to fit your needs. Read the Scenario Creation section
for more information on that (see page 117).

You’ll need to make sure you have the right materials to play, as well.
Paper and pencils are always necessary. Of course, you can print up some
character sheets, but I’ve personally found that scrap paper and index
cards can be quite useful for character info, and are often more easily
available for quick pick-up games. You’ll need a single deck of playing
cards, with the jokers left in. You’ll also need a good number of tokens
of some kind, for use as Adversity tokens and Survival tokens. Pennies,
poker chips, and glass bead counters work very well for this, and you
don’t even really need to differentiate between them.

If you’ve got the time and the inclination, consider printing out some
of the optional accessory cards from our website. These can make it a
lot easier for you to keep up with Weapons, Threats, Allies, and Mojo.
There’s a nifty “Team Psycho” meter you can print up, too. Just lay it
out on the table and have each player place a unique token of some sort
on it to represent their character’s current stage of Madness.

## Using The Cards

All mechanical conflicts in ***CC*** are resolved using a standard deck
of 54 playing cards with the Jokers intact. The ranking of suits, from
highest to lowest, is Spades, Hearts, Clubs, and Diamonds (remember:
Black, Red, Black, Red). Aces are high, and ranked at 14, with Kings,
Queens, and Jacks ranked at 13, 12, and 11, respectively.

The two Jokers are the real game-winners. When a Joker is played, the
player of the joker instantly wins whatever Showdown is in progress,
unless the opponent instantly counters with the other Joker (at which
point both of them are immediately canceled out). Jokers in the final
Play Pile are considered “faces and aces” for all such purposes, in
which cases each Joker qualifies as *two* such cards.

Throughout the game, the cards will be in one of four places: the Deck,
the Discard Pile, the Play Pile, and the players’ Hands. At the
beginning of every Showdown, involved players are dealt a Hand with a
number of cards equal to their relevant Characteristic rank. As the
Showdown is played through, the players play cards from their hands into
the play pile. At the end of the Showdown, the cards from the play pile
are counted to determine the results, and then placed in the discard
pile. The core deck of cards will most likely be played completely
through many times during the course of a high-octane game session.

The discard pile is ***only*** to be shuffled back into the deck when
there are not enough cards left in the deck to play a Showdown. One of
the subtler purposes of the deck is to maintain a level of mechanical
tension. As the deck steadily runs out, the players are forced to enter
conflicts knowing that their chances of drawing good cards become
increasingly slimmer, and that can definitely affect their decisions.
This is an intended feature of the mechanics, and it can easily be
ruined by unnecessarily frequent reshufflings.

What if the cards run out and all of them are in hands, ready to play?
Then stop drawing and start playing, folks!

### Optional: Using a Second Deck

Besides drawing cards for conflicts, you will find many instances where
the game rules suggest you draw a card to just randomly see what
happens. The CiC might use the deck to randomly create a quick Threat,
or draw a card to determine the stats on a new weapon, or even just to
get a quick descriptive count of how many zombies are shambling toward
the players. The default rules assume you are making these draws from
the main play deck, and helping it move along quicker, but if you want
you might find it easier to have a second deck on-hand for the CiC to
use just for these purposes. However, if you do choose to use a second
deck to help with game management, all Quickies and Showdowns must be
drawn from the same deck for all participants, including the CiC.

## A Note on Power Balances

As a player, you should keep in mind that the CiC is pretty much there
to “get” you and make your character’s life dangerous and exciting.
While there are definitely some checks and balances governing the CiC’s
ability to directly screw with your characters, she still has a lot of
discretionary power when it comes to throwing all kinds of dangers and
blood-crusted plot hooks at you. The CiC can drive both you and your
character crazy; the crazier she makes you, the more effectively she is
doing her job.

## Challenge the Narration!

This game works best if the players take the narration and run with it.
The CiC’s entire purpose in this game is to screw with the Survivors in
as many ways as possible. The players must rise to the occasion and
challenge the CiC, and fight for their own survival. If the CiC says
your character’s head gets crushed by a boulder and you die, then it
happens – *unless*, of course, you decide to say “hell no!” and
challenge it, lettings the cards decide. If you believe your character
can make a difference, then challenge the established narration and make
her shine!

## Every Game is Different!

Keep in mind that every session of ***Cannibal Contagion*** will play
out differently. Depending on how the players use the mechanics, your
game may focus heavily on Contagion, Madness, Survival, or any
combination of these or other core game themes and features. I’ve played
games wherein the players descended into Madness within a tiny handful
of scenes, yet didn’t really deal much with Contagion. Thene again, I’ve
played games wherein the entire team of Survivors was Turned into
zombies before anyone could even descend pas the second stage of
Madness. I encourage you each to explore the themes of the heaviest
interest to you, and let your own games flow as they may.

## About This Book...

I’m really hoping that I’ve made this rules text both an informative and
enjoyable read. Don’t let its size intimidate you: there is more to this
book than just rules! I’ve tried to space a whole mess of idea-inducing
colorful text and reference material in here, and I hope you find
reading it as enjoyable and inspiring as I found writing it to be.

