# cannibal-contagion-rpg
Source for the Cannibal Contagion RPG by N. Phillip Cole

***Cannibal Contagion*** was my first fully-published game, and boyee does it show.
I wrote the game with a shitload of enthusiasm and a big heaping load of genuine
love in my heart, and as such I got _just_ a bit over-excited during the course of
writing it. As I frequently tell people these days, ***Cannibal Contagion*** is a
200-something page book that is about 120 pages too long.

That said, I still to this day believe that the core mechanics of this game are rock
fucking solid, and I've adapted this rules set to fit a great number of varied
gaming purposes. I'm still quite proud of this game's solid-but-lightweight chassis.
If you can cut through the overly-long chunks of expository text, there's a tight
little system here for zany, fast-paced role-playing action. The basic structures
within were strong inspiration for my follow-up game [_Motobushido_][motosite], and
they have even more recently gone on to inspire my most current project,
_Gattaibushido:FUSION!_ - which is something of a mechanical hybrid of the other two.
And I've even been tooling away at a revised edition, with the hopes of one day
getting it back out there, and in a stronger complete package.

I've [published the raw text of the original book here](./CannibalContagionRPG.md),
with only a few _very_ minor formatting tweaks to make it Markdown-compatible. I
freely admit that I've had more than one (as in many) cringe moment while skimming
through this document, and if nothing else, please believe me when I say that I've
developed a lot since writing this, I promise. =)

Today, ***Cannibal Contagion*** is no longer physically in print. I still have about
three dozen paperbacks in my closet that I truck around to the various conventions I
attend, but that's now the only way to get the physical book. And I don't really try
to promote the game, either. It's an artifact of my unskilled enthusiasm, and today
mostly serves me as a guidepost for how _not_ to write my future games. It's a big
flashing neon sign that screams "Always hire an editor and layout artist" at me, and
won't let me forget that one time I tried to do it all myself.

But at least I was able to send it back to Mom with a note that said "Look what I
made!" and a magnetic metal clip to hang it on the fridge.

**Note May 10th 2016:** *This is a lengthy document to convert, so I'm doing it in
stages. please bear with me while I add the sections one by one.*

[motosite]: http://motobushido.com